Abhishek Shankar | 4NI19IS003 | A section
DevOps Assignment - 2
1. Comparison between Hypervisor and Docker.
Note:- Alpha Numeric system -Hypervisor(1,2,3,...) roman numerals system -Docker(i,ii,iii,iv....).
1). Hypervisors can be made to work on software
and hardware where it works on the operating
system or on the CPU and storage services of
the system.
i). Dockers work only on software of the
operating system and not on the hardware
side. It takes the host kernel and works on the
principle of virtualization.
2). In a single system, we can use multiple
operating systems with the help of
Hypervisor. This makes the system to work
with multiple users with different methods
even for the same program. Hence the same
operation is done by different operating
systems.
ii). Docker does not allow user to create re
instances of operating system in the same
computer but it makes virtualization by
making containers in the same system.
Containers help users to work separately on
different or same applications. The same
operations are carried out by containers in the
system.
3). More power and resources are required by the
systems using hypervisor as different
programs are being run on the same system
with different operating systems.
iii). Resource requirement is low as containers are
working on the same operating system and
this makes the system to share resources
within the containers.
4). Boot time is high for hypervisors as different
operating systems are used. It may take some
minutes to start the system and users can
resume their work only after booting the
machine.
iv). Boot time is low for dockers as all the
containers work on the same machine. User
can start the system in seconds and can start
working on the same machine.
5). We cannot test the same application with
different parameters in hypervisor as there is
no container method available. This
application needs to be developed and tested
in the system. If the parameters must be
changed, it should be modified in the same
operating system itself.
v). If the same application needs to be tested in
the system with different instances, we can
use containers as different parameters can be
given to the application in the same container
and can be tested at the same time. Dockers
support this method of working which is
called an agile model.
6). Hypervisor works with host OS and guest OS
which creates layers that run the hardware.
We cannot create different instances for the
same application in the system but we can
control the hardware and make the system
work with both OS.
vi). Docker does not have an OS for itself and
thus it creates instances and parameters by
sitting on top of OS. This helps in modifying
the instances if needed. It works solely on the
host OS and does not control the hardware of
the system.
                                                                                          

2. Comparison between Containers and Virtual Machines.
Note:- Alpha Numeric system -Containers(1,2,3,...) roman numerals system -Virtual Machines(i,ii,iii,iv....).
1). While a container is a software that allows
different functionalities of an application
independently.
i). VM is piece of software that allows you to
install other software inside of it so you
basically control it virtually as opposed to
installing the software directly on the
computer.
2). While applications running in a container
environment share a single OS.
ii). Applications running on VM system can run
different OS.
3). While containers virtualize the operating
system only.
iii). VM virtualizes the computer system.
4). While the size of container is very light; i.e.,
a few megabytes.
iv). VM size is very large.
5). While containers take a few seconds to run. 
v). VM takes minutes to run, due to large size.
6). While containers require very less memory. 
vi). VM uses a lot of system memory.
7). While containers are less secure. 
vii). VM is more secure.
8). While containers are useful when we are
required to maximise, the running
applications using minimal servers.
viii). VM’s are useful when we require all of OS
resources to run various applications.
9). While examples of containers are:
RancherOS, PhotonOS, Containers by
Docker.
ix). Examples of VM are: KVM, Xen, VMware.